% West Wing 
% Douglas F. Calvert



# Top Ten Episodes

(@) "Two Cathedrals"
(@) "Posse Commitas"
(@) "20 Hours in America"
(@) "The Supremes"
(@) "Midyear Elections"

Current rank undecided (in alphabetical order):

* In Excelsius Deo
* Midterms (S02E03)
* Mr. Willis of Ohio
* Noel
* Six Meetings Before Lunch 

# Quotes 

## Season One

### Pilot

### Post Hoc, Ergo Propter Hoc

### A Proportional Response

### Five Votes Down

### The Crackpots and These Women

### Mr. Willis of Ohio

### The State Dinner

### Enemies

### The Short List

### In Excelsis Deo

### Lord John Marbury

### He Shall, From Time To Time...

### Take Out The Trash Day

### Take This Sabbath Day

### Celestial Navigation

### 20 Hours in L.A.

### The White House Pro-Am

### Six Meetings Before Lunch

### Let Bartlet Be Bartlet

### Mandatory Minimums

### Lies, Damn Lies and Statistics

### What Kind of Day Has It Been


## Season Two

### "He Shall, from Time to Time..."

#### Mrs. Bartlett to Mallory McGarry

> "Don't go for the geniuses. They never want to sleep."

### Midterms (S02E03)

#### President Bartlett to Reporter

> "I wanted to ask you a couple of questions while I had you here. I'm 
> interested in selling my youngest daughter into slavery as sanctioned in 
> Exodus 21:7. She's a Georgetown sophomore, speaks fluent Italian, and always 
> clears the table when it was her turn. What would a good price for her be? 

> While thinking about that, can I ask another? My Chief of Staff, Leo McGarry, 
> insists on working on the Sabbath, Exodus 35:2, clearly says he should be put 
> to death. Am I morally obligated to kill him myself or is it okay to call the 
> police? 

> Here's one that's really important, 'cause we've got a lot of sports 
> fans in this town. Touching the skin of a dead pig makes one unclean, 
> Leviticus 11:7. If they promise to wear gloves, can the Washington Redskins 
> still play football? 

> Can Notre Dame? 

> Can West Point? 

> Does the whole town really have to be together to stone my brother, John, for 
> planting different crops side by side? 

> Can I burn my mother in a small family gathering for wearing garments made 
> from two different threads? Think about those questions, would you? 

> One last thing, while you may be mistaking this for your monthly 
> meeting of the Ignorant Tightass Club, in this building, when the President 
> stands, nobody sits."



### Noël (S02E03)

#### Leo to Josh
    
> "This guy's walking down the street when he falls in a hole. The walls are so 
> steep he can't get out. 
    
> A doctor passes by and the guy shouts up, 'Hey you. Can you help me out?' The 
> doctor writes a prescription, throws it down in the hole and moves on. 
    
> Then a priest comes along and the guy shouts up, 'Father, I'm down in this 
> hole can you help me out?' 
> The priest writes out a prayer, throws it down in the hole and moves on. 

> Then a friend walks by, 'Hey, Joe, it's me can you help me out?' And the 
> friend jumps in the hole. Our guy says, 'Are you stupid? Now we're both down 
> here.' 

> The friend says, 'Yeah, but I've been down here before and I know the way out.'" 

### Bartlett's Third State of the Union

#### Margaret to Secretary of State

> "I'm sorry for interrupting but LEO McGarry was wondering if you could come 
> say hello to an old friend of his."

### The War at Home (S02E14)

#### Joey Lucas to Josh

> "Otherwise you're like the French radical watching the crowd run by and
> saying 'There go my people, I must find out where they are going so I can lead 
> them.'"

#### Leo McGarry to President Bartlett

> "If I could put myself anywhere in time it would be the Cabinet room on 
> August 4, 1964, when our ships were attacked by North Vietnam in the Tonkin 
> Gulf. I'd say, 'Mr. President...don't do it. You're considering authorizing a 
> massive commitment of troops and throwing in our lot with torturers and 
> panderers. Leaders without principle and soldiers without conviction with no 
> clear mission, and no end in sight.' This war is at home. The casualties are 
> in our prisons, and not our hospitals. The amount of money the American 
> government is spending in Columbia is the exact same amount American consumers 
> are spending buying drugs from Columbia. We're funding both sides of this war 
> and we'll never win it that way."

### Somebody's Going to Emergency, Somebody's going to Jail

#### Sam to Donna 

> "It was high treason, and it mattered a great deal! This country is an idea, 
> and one that's lit the world for two centuries and treason against that idea 
> is not just a crime against the living! This ground holds the graves of people 
> who died for it, who gave what Lincoln called the last full measure of 
> devotion. Of fidelity. You understand the last full measure of devotion to... 
> Treason against them is..."

### Stackhouse Filibuster

#### John Hoynes to Toby

> "Toby, the total tonnage of what I know that you don't could stun a team of 
> oxen in its tracks. Good night."

### Two Cathedrals

#### President Bartlett

> "You're a son-of-a-bitch, you know that?

> She bought her first new car and you hit her with a drunk 
> driver. What, was that supposed to be funny? 

> 'You can't conceive, nor can I, the appalling strangeness of the mercy of 
> God,' says Graham Greene. I don't know who's ass he was kissing there 'cause I 
> think you're just vindictive. 

> What was Josh Lyman? A warning shot? That was my son. What did I ever do to 
> yours except praise his glory and praise his name?

> There's a tropical storm that gaining speed and power. They say we haven't 
> had a storm this bad since you took out the tender ship of mine last year in 
> the north Atlantic last year... 68 crew. Do you know what a tender ship does? 
> Fixes the other ships. Doesn't even carry guns. Floats around and fixes the 
> other ships and delivers that mail. That's all it can do.

> Gratias tibi ago, domine. Yes, I lied. It was a sin. I've committed many sins. 
> Have I displeased you, you feckless thug? 3.8 million new jobs, that wasn't 
> good? Bailed out Mexico, increased foreign trade, 30 million new acres for 
> conservation, put Mendoza on the bench, we're not fighting a war, I've raised 
> three children...

> That's not enough to buy me out of the doghouse? Haec credam a deo pio? A deo 
> iusto? A deo scito?

> Cruciatus in crucem! Tuus in terra servus nuntius fui officium perfeci.  
> Cruciatus in crucem. Eas in crucem!"


## Season Three


### Manchester (Part 1)

### Manchester (Part 2)

### Ways and Means


#### President Bartlett to Senior Staff

> "It doesn't matter if most voters don't benefit. They all believe that someday 
> they will. That's the problem with the American dream. It makes everyone 
> concerned for the day they're gonna be rich..." 


### On the Day Before

### War Crimes

### Gone Quiet

#### Bruno to Sam and Leo

> "Because I am tired of working for candidates who make me think I should be 
> embarrassed to believe what I believe, Sam. I'm tired of getting them elected. 
> We all need some therapy, because somebody came along and said 'liberal' means 
> soft on crime, soft on drugs, soft on Communism, soft on defense, and we're 
> gonna tax you back to the Stone Age because people shouldn't have to go to 
> work if they don't want to. And instead of saying 'Well, excuse me, you 
> right-wing, reactionary, xenophobic, homophobic, anti-eductaion, anti-choice, 
> pro-gun, 'Leave it to Beaver' trip back to the fifties,' we cowered in the 
> corner and said 'Please, don't hurt me.' No more. I really don't care who's 
> right, who's wrong. We're both right. We're both wrong. Let's have two 
> parties, huh? What do you say?"


### The Indians in the Lobby

### The Women of Qumar

### Bartlet For America

### H.CON - 172

### 100,000 Airplanes

### The Two Bartlets

#### Tobay and President Bartlett

Toby 
  ~ Well, there's always been a concern... about the two Bartlets. [beat] The
    absent-minded professor with the 'Aw, Dad' sense of humor. Disarming and 
    unthreatening. Good for all time zones. And the Nobel Laureate. Still 
    searching for salvation. Lonely, frustrated. Lethal.
Bartlet
  ~ You're gonna sing a country western song?
Toby
  ~ The one whose father never liked him because he was too smart.
Bartlet
  ~ This stopped being fun for me a little while ago.
Toby
  ~ Sir?


Bartlet
  ~ It was actually never fun for me. I was just being polite.

Toby
  ~ Your father used to hit you, didn't he, Mr. President?

Bartlet
  ~ Excuse me?

Toby
  ~ Your father used to hit you, sir?

Bartlet
  ~ Yeah.

Toby
  ~ Not like a spanking.

Bartlet
  ~ He hit me. Why?

Toby
  ~ He punched you.

Bartlet
  ~ I'm done being polite now.

Toby
  ~ He did it because you made him mad, but you didn't know why.

Bartlet
  ~ Toby, it was a complicated relationship. Can I help you?

Toby
  ~ It was because you were smarter than he was.

Bartlet
  ~ It was a complicated relationship.

Toby 
  ~ He didn't like you, sir. That's why he hit you. That's why people hit each 
other. He didn't like you. You were smarter than he was.

Bartlet
  ~ Why are we talking about this?

Toby
  ~ So maybe if you get enough votes, win one more election, maybe your father
will--

Bartlet 
  ~ You have stepped WAY over the line, and any other President would have 
your ass on the sidewalk right now.

Toby
  ~ Yes, sir.

Bartlet 
  ~ They would've had you on the sidewalk a long time ago. [firmly] I don't know 
what the hell goes on in a Brooklyn shrink's office, but get it the hell out of my house!


### Night Five

### Hartsfield's Landing

### Dead Irish Writers

### The U.S. Poet Laureate

#### Tabitha to Toby

Tabitha
  ~ "I've seen what I've seen. And I've been told what I've been told."


### Stirred

### Documentary Special

### Enemies Foreign and Domestic

### The Black Vera Wang

### We Killed Yamamoto

### Posse Comitatus

### Isaac and Ishmael

#### Ali to Leo

> "You know what, Mr. McGarry? You have the memory of a gypsy moth. When you and 
> the President and the President's daughter and about a hundred other people -- 
> including me, by the way -- were met with a hail of .44-calibre gunfire in 
> Rosslyn, not only were the shooters white...they were doing it because one of 
> us wasn't."


## Season Four

### 20 Hours in America

#### President Bartlett Speech

> "...More than any time in recent history, America's destiny is not of our own
> choosing. We did not seek nor did we provoke an assault on our freedoms and 
> our way of life. We did not expect nor did we invite a confrontation with 
> evil. Yet the true measure of a people's strength is how they rise to master 
> that moment when it does arrive.

> Forty-four people were killed a couple hours ago at Kennison State University; 
> three swimmers from the men's team were killed and two others are in critical 
> condition; when after having heard the explosion from their practice facility 
> they ran into the fire to help get people out--ran into the fire. 

> The streets of heaven are too crowded with angels tonight. They're our 
> students and our teachers and our parents and our friends. The streets of 
> heaven are too crowded with angels, but every time we think we have measured 
> our capacity to meet a challenge, we look up and we're reminded that that 
> capacity may well be limitless. This is a time for American heroes. We will do 
> what is hard. We will achieve what is great. This is a time for American 
> heroes and we reach for the stars. God bless their memory, God bless you, and 
> God bless the United States of America."

### College Kids

### The Red Mass

### Debate Camp

### Game On

### Election Night

### Process Stories

### Swiss Diplomacy

### Arctic Radar

### Holy Night

### Guns Not Butter

### The Long Goodbye

### Inauguration

### Inauguration: Over There

### California 47th

### Red Haven's on Fire

### Privateers

### Angel Maintenance

### Evidence of Things Not Seen

### Life on Mars

### Commencement

### Twenty Five

## Season Five

### 7A WF 83429 

### The Dogs of War 

### Jefferson Lives 

### Han 

### Constituency of One 

### Disaster Relief 

### Separation of Powers 

### Shutdown 

### Abu el Banat 

### The Stormy Present 

### The Benign Prerogative 

### Slow News Day 

#### President Bartlet and Toby

President Bartlet 
 ~  Social Security is the third rail of American politics. Touch it, and you 
 ~  die.
Toby
 ~  That's cause the third rail is where all the power is.


### OThe Warfare of Genghis Khan 

### An Khe

#### Leo to President Bartlet

Leo
 ~  "We were out in the jungle for three days. Kenny carried me on his back; hid
 ~  me under piles of leaves while he went to find us water. I was delirious, I 
 ~  lost a lot of blood. He could have left me; He should have left me. He never 
 ~  did. We, uh, found a clearing where we could send up a flare and a couple 
 ~  hours later these two Hueys showed up taking all kinds of AK fire. Men died 
 ~  for us. We had a responsibility to live our lives with integrity and honesty 
 ~  to honor their sacrifice."

President Bartlet
 ~  "Corruptio optimi pessima. 'Corruption of the best is the worst.' You've 
 ~  done more, much more, all on your own to honor their sacrifice, Leo. They'd 
 ~  be as proud to know you as I am."

### Full Disclosure 

### Eppur si muove 

### The Supremes 

#### Chief Justice Ashland to Toby and Josh

Chief Justice Ashland:
 ~  For God's sake, let us sit above the ground and tell sad stories of the
    death of kings.  Hagen was your age.  Eat your greens.
Toby:
 ~  He was a great man.
Chief Justice Ashland:
 ~  He was a selfish bastard.

#### President Bartlet and Judge Mulready

President Bartlett
 ~  Plenty of good law written by the voice of moderation.
Judge Mulready:
 ~  Who writes the extraordinary dissent?  The one man minority opinion whose 
 ~  time hasn't come but 20 years later some circuit court clerk digs it up at 3 
 ~  in the morning.  Brenden railing against censorship. Harlen's Jeremiah and 
 ~  I'm Jim Crowe.

### Access 

### Talking Points 

### No Exit 

### Gaza 

### Memorial Day 





# More Info 

## Useful Links 

[West Wing Transcripts](http://www.westwingtranscripts.com/search.php)


## Full Episode List

### Season One

#. Pilot
#. Post Hoc, Ergo Propter Hoc
#. A Proportional Response
#. Five Votes Down
#. The Crackpots and These Women
#. Mr. Willis of Ohio
#. The State Dinner
#. Enemies
#. The Short List
#. In Excelsis Deo
#. Lord John Marbury
#. He Shall, From Time To Time...
#. Take Out The Trash Day
#. Take This Sabbath Day
#. Celestial Navigation
#. 20 Hours in L.A.
#. The White House Pro-Am
#. Six Meetings Before Lunch
#. Let Bartlet Be Bartlet
#. Mandatory Minimums
#. Lies, Damn Lies and Statistics
#. What Kind of Day Has It Been

### Season Two

#. In the Shadow of Two Gunmen (Part 1)
#. In the Shadow of Two Gunmen (Part 2)
#. The Midterms
#. In This White House
#. And It's Surely to Their Credit
#. The Lame Duck Congress
#. The Portland Trip
#. Shibboleth
#. Galileo
#. Noël
#. The Leadership Breakfast
#. The Drop-In
#. Bartlet's Third State of the Union
#. The War at Home
#. Ellie
#. Somebody's Going to Emergency, Somebody's Going to Jail
#. The Stackhouse Filibuster
#. 17 People
#. Bad Moon Rising
#. The Fall's Gonna Kill You
#. 18th and Potomac
#. Two Cathedrals

### Season Three

#. Isaac and Ishmael
#. Manchester (Part 1)
#. Manchester (Part 2)
#. Ways and Means
#. On the Day Before
#. War Crimes
#. Gone Quiet
#. The Indians in the Lobby
#. The Women of Qumar
#. Bartlet For America
#. H.CON - 172
#. 100,000 Airplanes
#. The Two Bartlets
#. Night Five
#. Hartsfield's Landing
#. Dead Irish Writers
#. The U.S. Poet Laureate
#. Stirred
#. Documentary Special
#. Enemies Foreign and Domestic
#. The Black Vera Wang
#. We Killed Yamamoto
#. Posse Comitatus

### Season Four

#. 20 Hours in America
#. College Kids
#. The Red Mass
#. Debate Camp
#. Game On
#. Election Night
#. Process Stories
#. Swiss Diplomacy
#. Arctic Radar
#. Holy Night
#. Guns Not Butter
#. The Long Goodbye
#. Inauguration
#. Inauguration: Over There
#. California 47th
#. Red Haven's on Fire
#. Privateers
#. Angel Maintenance
#. Evidence of Things Not Seen
#. Life on Mars
#. Commencement
#. Twenty Five

### Season Five 

#. 7A WF 83429
#. The Dogs of War
#. Jefferson Lives
#. Han
#. Constituency of One
#. Disaster Relief
#. Separation of Powers
#. Shutdown
#. Abu el Banat
#. The Stormy Present
#. The Benign Prerogative
#. Slow News Day
#. OThe Warfare of Genghis Khan
#. An Khe
#. Full Disclosure
#. Eppur si muove
#. The Supremes
#. Access
#. Talking Points
#. No Exit
#. Gaza
#. Memorial Day
